Workings (short)


1. Unit selection:
Selection of Units is simple. Just click on a Unit and the unit will be selected.
The selection can be seen by a blue rectangle shown around the unit. When the unit
is clicked a 2nd time the unit will be deselected again.
When there is a ground unit and a plane together in 1 field the ground unit will
be selected first. When you click a 2nd time the plane will be selected.


2. Movement:
The basic movement of the game is done with the keyboard. You can quickly position
yourself on the screen with the horizontal ruler but the fine movements of units on 
the screen must be done with the Keys 'A','D','W' and 'S' or the arrow keys.
It is also possible to move in diagonal directions by using the [home/pgup/pgdn/end]
buttons or [q/e/z/c] on the other side. When you want to use the mouse then you can
move your units using the movement arrows at tha left bottom of the screen.
Each Unit has a maximum movement allowance. When this MA is reached the Unit will
not move anymore and the unit will be deselected until next turn.
This MA is 3 for Tanks and 1 for Infantery, Artillery and Antitank units. Please
note that it is possible to use normal (or armed) transport for units except for
Tanks. Just right-click the unit and select "Mount". The unit will then be loaded
unto the transport which has a maximum MA of 3. When you select "Dismount" the 
unit will be unloaded again and can then be used in battle.

When moving your Units around the Units of the enemy will not be visible unless
they get very close. This feature is called FOW (Fog of War).


3. Attacks:

a. Ground Units
Ground Units can attack when they are directly adjacent to enemy units.
(except for artilley which can also attack from distance)
Just click on the Enemy unit and an attack will be carried out. Keep in
mind that each attack will be followed by a counter-attack. The results
of the attack will be visible in the health of the units and depend on
the type of units, the surface and possible entrenchment.

b. Air Units:
Air Units can fight against each other. Just click on another plane and an
air attack will be carried out. Keep in mind that Fighters are much better
in air attacks then bomber planes.

Air Units can also bomb/attack ground units. Just click on a ground unit and 
a ground attack will be carried out. Keep in mind that Bombers are much better
in ground attacks then fighter planes.


4. Rest/Repair/Supply:

All Units are using Ammo. The amount of availible ammo can be seen at the bottom
when the unit is selected. When the ammo is 0 the unit will not be able to attack
again and the Ammo must be re-supplied. Tanks and Planes use fuel. The amount of 
availible fuel can be seen at the bottom when the tank/plane is selected.
Without fuel the tank/plane will not be able to move anymore and in the case of
a plane (outside and airport) the plane will be destroyed. So keep in mind to
return your plane to an airport before it's fuel is lost. In an airport the fuel
and ammo of the plane will be automatically re-supplied.

When your unit has low health or a small amount of ammo and/or fuel you can restore
the health and re-supply ammo and fuel by clicking the "Rest/Repair" button.
When there are no enemy units the health, ammo and fuel will be completely restored,
but when there are adjacent enemies it will be only partially restored.


5. Occupy Cities:

When the defending Unit of a city is killed the City will not be automatically
conquered. A ground unit needs to enter the city first to conquer the city.
Please note that Planes that enter an empty city will also not conquer the city.


6. Buying New Units/Prestige:

Each side has a number of credits called Prestige that can be used to buy new
units. Just select the unit in the dropdown-box below and click on buy. The
price of the unit is also shown in the box. When you want normal or armed
transport with a ground unit then you must select that in the 2nd box.

New Units for the AXIS can be placed in Posen or Breslay which can be selected
by the checkboxes below. The Polish forces can be placed in Lodz, Warsaw or in
the city Siedice.

When a unit is bought the price of the unit is automatically subtracted from the
Prestige of the forces.



7. Victory Conditions:

The total game contains at maximum 24 turns for both Axis and Polish forces.
The game starts with the AXIS and when 'End Turn' is selected go to the Polish
forces and so on. (when a Human-AI game is selected the Polish turn will be
played automatically and return to the AXIS when the turn is completed)

All cities that must be occupied by the AXIS forces are shown by a a yellow
Victory rectangled around the city. When all these Victory cities are occupied
by the Axis forces before the start of the 25th turn then the AXIS will win
this battle and otherwise the Polish defenders will win.

Saving/Loading Games:
When you want to save your game then you must enter the game-number in the field
"save:" at the bottom and then click the SAVE button. You will see that in the map
"Saves" 3 xml-files will be made that contain your save-game situation:
S01_Poland_Settings[nr], S01_Poland_UnitsAxis[nr] and S01_Poland_UnitsAllies[nr].

Please note that you can only save your game at the start of a turn!
When you want to load the game then enter the game-numer and click on load.
The corresponding savegame (when present !) will be automatically loaded.

It is also possible to directly load your savegame at the start of the game by
selecting "Load a saved game" and then select your savegame.


8. PBEM Games (Play by email):

WWIIBlitzkrieg is a turn based strategy game which has been made to play with PBEM.
Of course you can train yourself and get familiar with the game playing against the
Polish defender AI but it is much more fun to play with PBEM against opponents.

PBEM works like this: You play your turn and at the end your progress will be saved
with 3 gamefiles (with .SAV extension) You send your gamefiles with email to your
opponent and het will be able to open them with "Continue PBEM Game" and play his
own turn. At the end of his turn his progress will also be saved with 3 savefiles
that he can email to the other so that he can continue.

All gamefiles are encrypted so that noone can cheat with the results of the game
during the PBEM game. The game-files (.SAV) send by the AXIS will be called:
S01_Poland_Settings[nr]A,S01_Poland_UnitsAxis[nr]A and S01_Poland_UnitsAllies[nr]A
and they will be placed in the PBEM directory.
(There are also XML-files made but they can be disregarded!)

Just send these 3 game-files to the other player and he must place these 3 files
in his own PBEM directory. 

At the end of his turn his 3 game-files (.SAV) that will be made are:
S01_Poland_Settings[nr]B,S01_Poland_UnitsAxis[nr]B and S01_Poland_UnitsAllies[nr]B
and they are also placed in his PBEM directory.
He must email them to his opponent so that he can continue the PBEM game.


9. Battle Parameters:

This paragraph is about the details of the battle resolution and can be skipped 
if you are not interested in how the battle results are calculated.

For ground attacks 2 things must be (extra) considered. At first the surface that the
attack takes place. Attack/Defense in Woods and Mountain works better then on normal 
ground and much worse on Rivers and Swamps .
Defending units that stay at the same place will entrench themselves which will improve
their defending. The entrenchment increases with each turn and the maximum entrenchment
of 2 or 3 will depend on the type of unit. When you select the unit the entrenchment
will be shown on the bottom.

For the battle resolution of all units a number of parameters of the units are important
which can be seen at the bottom when the unit is selected:

HA: Hard Attack. The attack against Hard Units (Tank,Artilley,Anti-tank)

SA: Soft Attack. The attack against Soft Units (Infantery)

AA: Air Attack.  The attack in the air between planes.

NA: Naval Attack. (not used in this game)

GD: Ground Defense. The defense against attacking ground units.

AD: Air Defense. The defense against attacking planes.

The attack is placed against the defence in the game (with an addition for surface
and/or entrenchment) and then the dice are rolled to determine results.




Good Luck,
Reiniere.

